Add documentation about OpenXR render models (#11014)
godotengine/godot-docs: tutorials/xr/openxr_render_models.rst

.. _doc_openxr_render_models:

OpenXR Render Models
====================

> A cornerstone in OpenXRs API design is being as platform agnostic as possible.

Reviewer: Additionally, "cornerstone of" sounds better:

```suggestion
A cornerstone of OpenXR's API design is being as platform agnostic as possible.
```

    Some XR runtimes will always set the tracker to either the left or right
    hand even if the controller is not currently held but is being tracked.
    You should always test this as this will lead to unwanted behavior.

In this scenario we can also specify an action for a pose in the action map
by setting the ``make_local_to_pose`` to the pose action.
Use this in combination with a :ref:`XRController3D<class_XRController3D>`
node that is using the same pose and you can now add a layer that allows
you to deviate from the tracked position of both your controller and the
related render model (see example below).

.. note::
    Combining the above with hand tracking does introduce the problem
    that hand tracking is completely independent from the action map
    system. You will need to combine the hand tracking and controller
    tracking poses to properly offset the render models.

    This falls beyond the scope of this document but an example of
    this implementation can be found in
    `our hand tracking demo <https://github.com/godotengine/godot-demo-projects/tree/master/xr/openxr_hand_tracking_demo>`_.

>     **Need to submit a PR to the hand tracking demo for this implementation once render models is merged**

Author: Owh thanks for the reminder, yes I have one ready, no I haven't submitted it yet because at the time it wasn't yet public :)

>     **Need to submit a PR to the hand tracking demo for this implementation once render models is merged**

Author: Need to dot some i's and cross some t's, had forgotten I had this waiting in the wings, which is actually the demo project I used to create the sample code in this documentation:
https://github.com/godotengine/godot-demo-projects/pull/1218

    It is important to set the physics priority such that this logic runs 
    after any physics logic that moves the XROrigin3D node or the hand
    will lag a frame behind.

The script below shows a basic implementation for this that you can build
upon.

.. code-block:: gdscript

    class_name CollisionHands3D
    extends AnimatableBody3D

    func _ready():
        # Make sure these are set correctly
        top_level = true
        sync_to_physics = false
        process_physics_priority = -90

    func _physics_process(_delta):
        # Follow our parent node around
        var dest_transform = get_parent().global_transform

        # We just apply rotation for this example
        global_basis = dest_transform.basis

        # Attempt to move to where our tracked hand is
        move_and_collide(dest_transform.origin - global_position)

Finally we see another :ref:`OpenXRRenderModelManager<class_OpenXRRenderModelManager>`
node, this one with ``target`` set to the appropriate hand and
``make_local_to_pose`` set to the correct pose.
This will ensure that the render models related to this hand are properly
shown and offset if our collision handler has altered the location.

> **Add video or animation to see this in practice**

Reviewer: Another TODO!

Author: That's what I get for there being months between writing this and being able to publish it :P

Need to make a recording of my Flynn demo

.. warning::

    For most XR runtimes this means the render model represents a controller
    that is actually being held by the user but this is not a guarantee.
    Some XR runtimes will always set the tracker to either the left or right
    hand even if the controller is not currently held but is being tracked.
    You should always test this as this will lead to unwanted behavior.

In this scenario we can also specify an action for a pose in the action map
by setting the ``make_local_to_pose`` property to the pose action.
Use this in combination with an :ref:`XRController3D<class_XRController3D>`
node that is using the same pose and you can now add a layer that allows
you to deviate from the tracked position of both your controller and the
related render model (see example below).

.. note::

    Combining the above with hand tracking does introduce the problem
    that hand tracking is completely independent from the action map
    system. You will need to combine the hand tracking and controller
    tracking poses to properly offset the render models.

    This falls beyond the scope of this documentation but an example
    implementation of this can be found in

>     `our hand tracking demo <https://github.com/godotengine/godot-demo-projects/tree/master/xr/openxr_render_models>`_.

Reviewer 2: @BastiaanOlij does the hand tracking demo as it is now do what's described in this note? I'm not seeing any updates for that demo project for render models.

Author: Oh damn, I updated the URL but not the description, let me fix that.

Author: Ok, changed this a little because the original didn't make sense anymore. So the link has moved to the next section as the demo is what was used to create the rest of the documentation.

    will lag a frame behind.

The script below shows a basic implementation for this that you can build
upon.

.. code-block:: gdscript

    class_name CollisionHands3D
    extends AnimatableBody3D

    func _ready():
        # Make sure these are set correctly.
        top_level = true
        sync_to_physics = false
        process_physics_priority = -90

    func _physics_process(_delta):
        # Follow our parent node around.
        var dest_transform = get_parent().global_transform

        # We just apply rotation for this example.
        global_basis = dest_transform.basis

        # Attempt to move to where our tracked hand is.
        move_and_collide(dest_transform.origin - global_position)

Finally we see another :ref:`OpenXRRenderModelManager<class_OpenXRRenderModelManager>`
node, this one with ``target`` set to the appropriate hand and
``make_local_to_pose`` set to the correct pose.
This will ensure that the render models related to this hand are properly
shown and offset if our collision handler has altered the location.

.. raw:: html

    <div style="position: relative; padding-bottom: 56.25%; height: 0; overflow: hidden; max-width: 100%; height: auto;">

>         <iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/_gNOd7wQ62M" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen style="position: absolute; top: 0; left: 0; width: 100%; height: 100%;"></iframe>

Reviewer 3: Use the no-cookie embed [for better privacy](https://www.ghacks.net/2018/05/23/why-you-should-always-use-youtubes-privacy-enhanced-mode/):

```suggestion
        <iframe src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/_gNOd7wQ62M" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen style="position: absolute; top: 0; left: 0; width: 100%; height: 100%;"></iframe>
```

     - Description
   * - render_model_get_all
     - Provides an array of RIDs for all render models
       that are being tracked.
   * - render_model_new_scene_instance
     - Provides a new scene that contains all meshes
       needed to display the render model.
   * - render_model_get_subaction_paths
     - Provides a list of subaction paths from your
       action map related to this render mode.
   * - render_model_get_top_level_path
     - Returns the top level path associated with this
       render model (if any).
       Use the ``render_model_top_level_path_changed``
       signal to react to this changing.
   * - render_model_get_confidence
     - Returns the tracking confidence for the tracking
       data for this render model.
   * - render_model_get_root_transform
     - Returns the root transform for this render model
       within our current reference space. This can be
       used to place the render model in space.
   * - render_model_get_animatable_node_count
     - Returns the number of node in our render model
       scene that can be animated
   * - render_model_get_animatable_node_name
     - Returns the name of the node that we can animate.

>        Note that this node can be any level deep within

Author: Went for the first option :)
